.TH SYSOPCTL 8 "October 2024" "v0.1.0" "System Operations Control"
.SH NAME
sysopctl \- System operations management command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sysopctl
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
sysopctl is a powerful command-line tool designed for system administrators to efficiently manage and monitor system resources, services, and overall system health. It provides a user-friendly interface for controlling services, checking performance metrics, and performing routine maintenance tasks to ensure optimal system operation.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBsysopctl service list\fR
List all active system services along with their current statuses, allowing administrators to quickly assess which services are running.

.TP
\fBsysopctl service start <service-name>\fR
Start a specified service by name. This command can be used to initiate any service that is currently stopped.

.TP
\fBsysopctl service stop <service-name>\fR
Stop a specified service by name. This is useful for halting services that are no longer needed or for performing maintenance.

.TP
\fBsysopctl system load\fR
Display the current system load averages over 1, 5, and 15 minutes, helping to identify performance bottlenecks.

.TP
\fBsysopctl disk usage\fR
Show disk usage statistics by partition, including total, used, and available space, facilitating storage management.

.TP
\fBsysopctl process monitor\fR
Monitor real-time process activity, providing insights into CPU and memory usage, and allowing administrators to identify resource-intensive processes.

.TP
\fBsysopctl logs analyze\fR
Analyze recent critical system log entries to help diagnose issues and maintain system integrity. This command can be used to filter logs based on severity.

.TP
\fBsysopctl backup <path>\fR
Backup files from the specified path to a designated backup location, ensuring data safety and recovery options.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--help\fR, \fB-h\fR
Show help message and usage instructions.

.TP
\fB--version\fR, \fB-v\fR
Show the version of sysopctl.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all running services:
.B
sysopctl service list
.TP
Start the Apache service:
.B
sysopctl service start apache2
.TP
Check system load averages:
.B
sysopctl system load
.TP
Monitor system processes:
.B
sysopctl process monitor
.TP
Backup user documents:
.B
sysopctl backup /home/user/documents

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Dharmendra Singh

